Can you use camera mapping and Three.js?
>> I guess the answer would be,
there's probably a way to do that,
it might not be built in as far as I know.
But something like instead
of mapping using a sphere,
but mapping using the current viewport,
you might have to write that in a shader.
Anyways, the answer I would say would
be yes if she can figure it out.m in
a shader.
But that’s not very helpful, but
I think you’d have to think about it cuz
I would have to think about it to and I
would have to come up with some solution.
And also I guess it
depends because there’s
different ways of mapping to a camera like
the simplest would be to
use this gl_Position.
But yeah, anyways, that's not a very
good answer because I don't have a good
answer for it, sorry, yeah,
>> I tried to apply point lighting
to a shader material and it didn't work.
>> So that's gonna be tricky as well, so
the way that point lighting works is that
Three.js has these materials like phong
material or standard material, and
when they say phong material or standard
retail, it's just that they've already
written huge shader that has to do with
all the lighting and stuff like that.
And so
that that early shader that we wrote,
it was just like void main({
gl_FragColor = vec4color, opacity;)}.
This is actually a mesh basic
material that we're writing here.
So we've just written our
own mesh basic material, but
imagine as the materials get more and
more complex,
the shaders get more and more complex and
trying to insert one little line
of difference into a Three.js shader
is quite complex and not very easy.
So it's definitely possible, many people
working with Three.js are trying to
figure out different ways of doing that,
where we take a built in material and
we wanna just modify it with one line,
we wanna just add our own thing.
But you're gonna have to sort
of dig around the Internet and
see how other people are using, so
threejs shader custom Phong,
or something like that.
And you're gonna have
to sort of dig in and
see how people are doing
this in different ways.
And so there's some people that
are writing blog posts about how
they're taking this approach,
and so on and so forth.
>> So a material is just
a fancy pre-built shader.
>> Exactly, 100% just a shader, and so,
yeah it's just what we've
been writing today, yeah.
>> What's the best way to hide
a certain portion of an object?
>> To hide is that the question?
>> That's the question.
>> So the best way to hide
certain portions of an object,
it depends on what you're
trying to achieve.
>> Something about clipping?
>> Yeah so, I mean when we talk
about like WebGL there's so
many ways of doing one thing, so
that's kind of what I was trying to get
at with this exercise with the circles.
We were just trying to do this kind of
circles thing, but we approached it in so
many different ways, and they all had
different benefits and fallbacks and
stuff like that.
So let's say I was trying to
mask out part of this image,
what you actually could do maybe is in
a fragment shader, you could edit it so
that we have that mask variable like we
were doing earlier which goes from 0 to 1.
And maybe it's like part of this
here is gonna be if the mask
variable here is 0 and then the rest
of it is 1, then you can use for
your frag color,
you could say mix from a transparent
value like RGBA with the alpha 0,
to an opaque value.
And then you'll be able to
see through that part, so
actually a good example here within
our circle, within our sphere.
Let's say we wanted to be able to see
through these points, these polka dots,
so that it was more like wiffle ball or
something like that.
So in our fragment shader,
we can do this little line here,
if mask is less than 0.5,
we're gonna do discard,
and actually I should have done the other
way around if it's greater than 0.5.
And what that's gonna do is it's gonna
say, if we're inside the circle,
discard the fragment,
discard means don't draw this fragment.
And if all of a sudden I mean right
now we're not seeing anything inside
the sphere, but
if we change this to a two sided material,
We're gonna see the inside of the sphere
as well, which is kind of cool actually.
And that's because we're just no longer
rendering these fragments, and so
because we are no longer rendering them,
we're seeing straight through them.
And so you can imagine a mask, that's not
just something as simple as circles, but
maybe it's using noise or
something like that, and
it's undulating, and
it's occluding parts of the sphere.
And so this is a fragment shader approach
to creating some occlusions, it has
some problems like one of the problems
has to do again with this jaggedness.
The lack of anti-aliasing
which is just a fancy word for
smoothing things, but
here if I save the file and
I take a look up close,
you'll see that it's very jagged.
And that's because we're using
this boolean if it's over
a certain value discard,
if it's under a certain accept.
And what we really want instead of
a Boolean is we want some sort of a,
a step function to smoothly go
from opaque to transparent but
doing that is not very easy.
So that has some downsides.
So if you didn't wanna take
a fragment based approach,
you could also do what's called CSG which
is a sort of construct of geometry.
And this is like actual Boolean
operations on geometry, so
you have one mesh, you take another
mesh and create a Boolean operation
And so that could actually be another
way to create this kind of wiffle ball,
by just putting cylinders
that are poking out,
so this actually would have
been a great exercise as well.
We have the exact exercise that we
have here, and we could use spheres or
we could use cylinders for each of
these spheres would work just as well.
But with CSG you can take these spheres,
and each of this spheres you could
sort of intersect it with the red sphere,
so each of these white spheres will
be intersected, so that you are basically
cutting holes in the red sphere.
And the benefit of that approach,
is that the circles you are gonna
get are gonna be anti aliased.
That's really the only benefit
which is a small benefit, but
depending on your creative direction,
depending on what kind of thing you're
building, you might want one or the other.
It's gonna lead to a lot more
triangles because when you have CSG,
you end up with lots of triangles in the
actual final output, which you can sort
of see it the mesh starts to get messy
with like the wire frame of the mesh.
But yeah, that's that's another way of
doing occlusion and stuff like that.
There's probably like a dozen
other ways to do occlusions,
and a dozen other ways to do
this kind of shader as well.